.\" Man page for mr-review
.TH MR-REVIEW 1 "July 2026" "mr-review 2.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
mr-review \- kernel patch review tool with GitLab MR integration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mr-review
.PP
.B mr-review mr review
.I MR_NUMBER
.PP
.B mr-review mr list
.RI [ \-\-state
.IR STATE ]
.RI [ \-\-author
.IR AUTHOR ]
.RI [ \-\-target
.IR BRANCH ]
.PP
.B mr-review mr comments
.I MR_NUMBER
.PP
.B mr-review mr approve
.I MR_NUMBER
.RI [ \-\-comment ]
.PP
.B mr-review mr block
.I MR_NUMBER
.PP
.B mr-review
.BR format | seek | compare | status
.PP
.B mr-review set-config
.I KEY VALUE
.PP
Must be run from inside a RHEL kernel git repository.
Requires the
.B lab
CLI tool for GitLab operations (see
.BR PREREQUISITES ).
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mr-review
is a Python-based kernel patch review tool that extracts patches
from GitLab Merge Requests, formats their upstream counterparts,
identifies missing fixes, and provides an interactive diff viewer
for side-by-side comparison.
It replaces and extends the original
.BR patchreview (1)
bash tool with improved mega-merge handling, a rich terminal UI,
and streamlined MR workflow.
.PP
When invoked without arguments,
.B mr-review
enters interactive mode with a menu-driven interface.
When invoked with a subcommand, it operates in CLI mode.
Both modes offer the same core functionality.
.SS "Review workflow"
The typical review workflow is:
.IP 1. 3
Enter an MR number or select one from a list.
.IP 2. 3
Patches are extracted from the MR via the
.B lab
CLI.
.IP 3. 3
Upstream commits are identified from the RHEL patches
and formatted from the upstream repository.
.IP 4. 3
Missing
.B Fixes:
tags are sought in upstream history.
.IP 5. 3
RHEL patches are compared with upstream commits batch-style;
conflicts are highlighted.
.IP 6. 3
An interactive diff viewer launches for reviewing conflicts
using the configured editor (vimdiff, meld, tkdiff, or emacs).
.IP 7. 3
The MR is approved, blocked, or commented on.
.SS "Mega-merge handling"
When a patch contains more upstream commits than the
.B mega_merge_threshold
(default 10), the tool offers strategies to manage the
volume:
.IP \(bu 2
.B "Group by subsystem"
\(em see which source areas are touched and review per-group.
.IP \(bu 2
.B "Filter by files"
\(em only commits touching the same files as the RHEL patch.
.IP \(bu 2
.B Skip
\(em mark as a bulk import without individual review.
.IP \(bu 2
.B "Manual selection"
\(em paginated, searchable commit list with single-key navigation.
.SH INTERACTIVE MODE
Invoke with no arguments:
.PP
.RS
.nf
mr-review
.fi
.RE
.SS "Main menu keys"
.TP
.B c
Config menu (editor, directories, toggles).
.TP
.B d
Set patch directory.
.TP
.B w
Set work directory.
.TP
.B u
Set upstream directory and branch.
.TP
.B W
Select a working kernel repository.
Scans the filesystem for kernel git trees, caches results,
and presents a numbered list with single-key selection.
.TP
.B M
Enter a specific MR number for review.
.TP
.B m
List open MRs and select one.
.TP
.B v
View comments for the current MR (paged, searchable).
.TP
.B a
Open the Ack/Nack/Comment menu for the current MR.
.TP
.B F
Format upstream patches from commit hashes in RHEL patches.
.TP
.B S
Seek missing
.B Fixes:
tags in upstream history.
.TP
.B P
Run batch comparison and enter the interactive diff viewer.
.TP
.B H
Review history menu.
.TP
.B h
Help (paged, searchable, with color).
.TP
.B q
Quit.
.SS "MR review menu keys"
After reviewing patches, the MR review menu is presented:
.TP
.B a
Approve the MR.
Checks for prior approval and warns if already approved.
.TP
.B A
Approve with a comment.
.TP
.B b
Block the MR and start a discussion.
.TP
.B u
Unapprove (retract approval).
.TP
.B c
Comment on the MR without approving or blocking.
.TP
.B v
View MR comments.
.TP
.B W
Select a different working repository.
.TP
.B M
Review another MR (prompts for new MR number).
.TP
.B m
Display the MR list.
.TP
.B P
Re-enter the diff viewer for the current MR.
.TP
.B H
Review history.
.TP
.B q
Return to main menu.
.SS "Diff viewer keys"
The interactive diff viewer provides:
.TP
.BR "any other key"
Display the diff for the current patch in the configured editor.
.TP
.B r
Replay the last displayed diff.
.TP
.B b
Go back one diff.
.TP
.B n
Jump to a specific patch number.
.TP
.B p
Substitute a different upstream commit for the last viewed patch.
Prompts for a commit hash, formats it from the upstream repo,
and immediately shows the updated diff.
.TP
.B c
Show the conflicting patch list.
.TP
.B m
Toggle conflict-only navigation mode.
.TP
.B f
View missing fixes (if any were found).
.TP
.B e
Show environment info (tag, branch, directories).
.TP
.B C
Re-run the batch comparison to refresh the conflict list.
.TP
.B q
Quit the diff viewer.
.SH CLI SUBCOMMANDS
.SS "mr review MR_NUMBER"
Run the full review pipeline for a specific MR: extract patches,
format upstream, seek missing fixes, compare, and present the
MR review menu.
The review menu remains active for follow-up actions
(approve, block, review another MR) without exiting.
.SS "mr list [\-\-state STATE] [\-\-author AUTHOR] [\-\-target BRANCH]"
List merge requests.
.B \-\-state
accepts
.BR opened ", " merged ", " closed ", or " all
(default:
.BR opened ).
.SS "mr comments MR_NUMBER"
View comments for a specific MR in a pager.
.SS "mr approve MR_NUMBER [\-\-comment]"
Approve a merge request.
With
.BR \-\-comment ,
prompt for an approval comment.
.SS "mr block MR_NUMBER"
Block a merge request and start a discussion.
.SS format
Format upstream patches from commit hashes found in RHEL patches.
.SS seek
Seek missing
.B Fixes:
tags in the upstream remote branch.
.SS compare
Run batch comparison and enter the interactive diff viewer.
.SS status
Show the current configuration and environment.
.SS "set-config KEY VALUE"
Set a configuration value directly.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration is stored per-repository in
.IR .data/patchreview.conf .
The file uses
.B "key = value"
format and is compatible with the original
.BR patchreview (1)
tool.
.PP
Key settings include:
.TP
.B editor
Diff editor:
.BR vimdiff ", " meld ", " tkdiff ", or " emacs .
.TP
.B indir
Directory containing RHEL (downstream) patches.
.TP
.B outdir
Work directory for formatted upstream patches and comparison output.
.TP
.B remote_dir
Path to the upstream Linux kernel git repository.
.TP
.B remote_repo
Upstream git remote name (e.g.\&
.BR origin ).
.TP
.B remote_branch
Upstream branch to search for fixes (e.g.\&
.BR master ).
.TP
.B b_seekfixes
Whether to automatically seek missing fixes (true/false).
.TP
.B mega_merge_threshold
Number of commits beyond which mega-merge strategies are offered
(default: 10).
.TP
.B mega_merge_default_strategy
Default mega-merge strategy:
.BR prompt ", " subsystem ", " files ", " skip ", or " manual .
.SH HISTORY
Review actions are recorded in
.IR ~/.data/mr-review/mr-review-history.log .
Each MR entry includes a URL and timestamped action lines showing
the action taken, number of patches, and number of conflicts:
.PP
.RS
.nf
4594  https://gitlab.com/.../merge_requests/4594
      Wed Jul  1 09:30:00 AM EDT 2026  Approved : 14 patches, 3 conflicts
.fi
.RE
.PP
The history menu
.RB ( H )
provides options to view all history, view history for a specific MR,
or clear history.
.SH REPOSITORY DISCOVERY
The
.B W
key triggers kernel repository discovery.
.B mr-review
scans the filesystem from
.B /
for directories containing both a
.I .git
directory and a
.I Kconfig
file (indicating a kernel tree).
System directories
.RI ( /proc ", " /sys ", " /dev ", " /run ", etc.)"
are skipped.
.PP
Results are cached in
.I ~/.data/mr-review/repos.cache
and presented as a numbered list.
A rescan can be forced from the menu.
When fewer than 10 repositories are found, single-key selection
is used (no Enter required).
.SH PREREQUISITES
.TP
.B Python 3.6+
With the
.B click
and
.B rich
packages installed.
.TP
.B lab
The GitLab CLI tool, configured with access to the target
GitLab instance.
Used for MR listing, patch extraction, approval, blocking,
and commenting.
.TP
.B git
Standard git, accessible on
.BR PATH .
.TP
.B "Diff editor"
One of
.BR vimdiff ", " meld ", " tkdiff ", or " emacs .
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Normal exit.
.TP
.B 1
Error: not in a git repository, missing prerequisites,
or unrecoverable failure.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B LESS
Set to
.B \-R
automatically when paging output, enabling ANSI color passthrough.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I .data/patchreview.conf
Per-repository configuration file.
.TP
.I .patches/tmp/
Temporary directory for extracted MR patches and formatted
upstream patches.
.TP
.I ~/.data/mr-review/mr-review-history.log
Review history file recording actions, patch counts, and
conflict counts.
.TP
.I ~/.data/mr-review/repos.cache
Cached list of kernel git repositories found on the system.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR patchreview (1),
.BR git-format-patch (1),
.BR vimdiff (1),
.BR lab (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Tony Camuso <tcamuso@redhat.com>
